# Jim Cramer says Amazon is firing on all cylinders, but urges patience on stumbling Ford
**Jeff Marks**

**2023-10-27 15:41**

**https://www.cnbc.com/2023/10/27/jim-cramer-says-amazon-is-firing-on-all-cylinders-but-urges-patience-on-stumbling-ford.html**

Every weekday the CNBC Investing Club with Jim Cramer holds a "Morning Meeting" livestream at 10:20 a.m. ET. Here's a recap of Friday's key moments. 1. Stocks were mixed Friday, as all three major U.S. equity benchmarks headed for losing weeks. Strength in tech giants Amazon (AMZN), Microsoft (MSFT) and Meta Platforms (META) pushed the S & P 500 and Nasdaq higher Friday, while the Dow was pressured by hotter inflation data . Overall, the market remained in oversold territory, according to Jim Cramer's trusted S & P Short Range Oscillator , so we made small buys all week as our discipline demands. 2. The standout quarter this week belongs to Amazon, which reported results Thursday after the bell . Jim expressed confidence in Amazon's positioning on its three major revenue sources: e-commerce, cloud, and advertising. In e-commerce, Amazon's efforts to retool its fulfillment network are improving delivery times and customer satisfaction. Interest in generative artificial intelligence applications is poised to lift Amazon Web Services' revenue. In advertising, which is a newer area of focus, the company is "on fire," Jim said. He added the cost-control measures Amazon has implemented this year have resulted in a much more profitable company. Shares of Amazon surged more than 8% on Friday to around $129 each. 3. On the other side of the earnings coin is Ford (F), whose shares were sinking roughly 8% to under $11 apiece. "Unfortunately, that's justified," Jim said about Wall Street's negativity on Ford. While the Michigan-based automaker finally reached a tentative deal to resolve the United Auto Workers strike, its quarterly report late Thursday disappointed — due, in large part, to elevated warranty costs. As a result, we cannot endorse using Friday's stock plunge as a buying opportunity. Patience is needed before we commit additional money to this position. This is in contrast to our approach to Meta's post-earnings declines, which prompted us to upgrade the stock to our buy-equivalent 1 rating . (Jim Cramer's Charitable Trust is long MSFT, AMZN, F and META. See here for a full list of the stocks.) As a subscriber to the CNBC Investing Club with Jim Cramer, you will receive a trade alert before Jim makes a trade. Jim waits 45 minutes after sending a trade alert before buying or selling a stock in his charitable trust's portfolio. If Jim has talked about a stock on CNBC TV, he waits 72 hours after issuing the trade alert before executing the trade. THE ABOVE INVESTING CLUB INFORMATION IS SUBJECT TO OUR TERMS AND CONDITIONS AND PRIVACY POLICY , TOGETHER WITH OUR DISCLAIMER . NO FIDUCIARY OBLIGATION OR DUTY EXISTS, OR IS CREATED, BY VIRTUE OF YOUR RECEIPT OF ANY INFORMATION PROVIDED IN CONNECTION WITH THE INVESTING CLUB. NO SPECIFIC OUTCOME OR PROFIT IS GUARANTEED.